---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/quartz/content/linux-notes/031-tasks/031-6-task-6/","noteIcon":"","created":"2023-10-14T22:10:59.692+05:30","updated":"2023-10-13T17:12:01.950+05:30"}
---

Links : [[quartz/content/Linux Notes/031 Tasks\|031 Tasks]]

# Task 6

1. ACL
	- copy `/etc/fstab` to `/var/tmp/fstab`. The user & group owner of that file should be root.
	- All users should be able to read the file. No one should be able to execute.
	- susan should not be able to read nor write. natasha should be able to read & write.
2. Directory Collaboration
	- Create the directory "solam" with the following characteristics.
	- Group ownership of "solam" should go to the "manager" group.
	- The directory should have full permission for all members of the "manager" group but no to the other users except "root".
	- Files created in future under "solam" should get the same group ownership.
3. Create a script in which, it should show a menu prompt
	- press,
		1. Copy
		2. Move
		3. Delete
			Enter your selection :

			If you press 1, it should ask for source file and destination path and only if both are correct it should copy file. If any one path is wrong it should give error "Copy Failed" and the whole script should re-run.
			
			If you press 2, it should ask for source file and destination path and only if both are correct it should move file. If any one path is wrong it should give error "Move Failed" and the whole scripts should re-run.
			
			If you press 3, it should ask for file name and if it is correct it should delete file. If file name is wrong it should give error "Delete Failed" and the whole script should re-run.
4. Create a script in which,
	- You have to run it as "/scriptname new_user_name_password".
	- Script should create the given username and also it should automatically set the given password.
	- It should also create a directory with the same username in /etc assign ownership to user and his primary group and also set its permission level to 770.